# Verification of Proper Tactics

Since the strategy should already be defined at this point and it depends on the scope agreed upon for the red teaming exercise, the Open-Sec framework focuses on ordering the specific operational actions. Although not all of these modules can necessarily be applied because they will depend on the type of exercise and scenario to be developed, all of them are common and useful.

For these reasons, carrying out an adequate **RECON** is the most important thing in any operation so that traditional Tactics can be modified so that they can be successfully applied or utilize those tactics that are not commonly exploited and may even lead to proposing entirely new tactics. For example, even red teaming exercises are closely related to breaking security at the infrastructure level and not at the application level. Getting an "initial commitment" through applications has the advantage that almost all of them require access to the core of the data and integration applications and that, in addition, their protection and monitoring are less mature than those used with respect to the infrastructure.

**ENUMERATION** is a task of organizing and preparing the information collected and analyzed for later use. It may also include actions that do not go against the passive nature of this stage or, if they do, generate common records (which are ignored due to their abundance) or unconventional records (which are ignored due to lack of knowledge of them).

Finally, the **REVIEW OF TACTICS** will allow us to know if more information or different information or information from a different source is required. For example, the analysis of documentation found on the Internet can confirm that a good option for the initial compromise may be the organization's Wi-Fi network or the installation of a false Wi-Fi network to which users connect. This determines that knowledge of the physical security established in the organization is required and a visit to the physical perimeter will be required. It is also valid to add Tactics, discard those defined or modify them.

## RECON (RECONNAISSANCE)

This module develops the same actions as a Pentest with important differences:

- In a Pentest, a broad collection of information regarding an organization can be carried out, but, given that the scope is extremely limited, it can end up being a waste of time since said information will not be used.
- One of the big differences in the **RECON** during a red teaming exercise is that a search will be made for documents not only to extract metadata but also to review the content of the documents regarding information useful for the exercise or that represents a disclosure of important data.
- Another of the big differences is that more time is given because it constitutes the bases of the exercise and the knowledge required about the organization. It is important to remember that a real red teaming operation is about data and the processes that manage it, not just about technology. In fact, the time allocated can reach 30% or more of the entire exercise.
- The information disclosed as a result of exploiting security breaches is not only reported to the organization being evaluated but is also taken as an important input for the rest of the operation's actions. This includes application source code and documents that are not solely for internal use.

Therefore, this module implies that not only is information collected but that it must be analyzed according to the objectives of the exercise after careful review and consideration

## ENUMERATION

The amount of information that can be obtained determines the need to compile it in a form suitable for the development of the other stages of the exercise and this implies having ways in which this information is easily accessible and can be subjected to various searches quickly and simply. There are many applications that can be used for these purposes, however, any practical form is valid. For example, having an SQLite database with BLOB fields (to store images) will help to perform searches with a language as popular as SQL and access the details of each information obtained beyond the basics (a file name, a URL, a user name, an email, disclosed passwords, etc.) including other non-basic elements (comments made by whoever obtained the information, screenshots, category, etc.)

This module is the final filter before continuing with the **TACTICS REVIEW** and is where some actions can be carried out that are not passive, but that do not raise early warnings either. For example, obtaining screenshots of exposed web servers is an action that should be part of the **RECON** module, but determining whether the quality is adequate or not, whether additional screenshots of the same base URL should be included (such as those generated by error messages) or including the source of the page, among others, correspond to this stage.

Another action may correspond to the traditional concept of enumeration (as carried out in a pentest when users, groups, roles, etc. are enumerated), but the fact that these activities leave records regardless of what they are about must be carefully analyzed. That is, an enumeration of users of an operating system or a cloud service must leave auditable records.

The motivation for wanting to carry out an enumeration of this type is that the feedback for the proposed Tactics will be very important. For example, when credentials of a cloud service have been obtained during the **RECON** and an attempt can be made to enumerate identities and resources.

## REVIEW TACTICS

Ideally, the previous modules have served to confirm the proposed Tactics, but in the real world this module serves to improve, correct, discard or create new ones.

While it is true that there is no strict sequence in the application of each stage (you can go up and down as required), this module should serve to continue steadily with the rest of the stages.

In fact, it is the one that will ultimately determine the type of red teamers that will be assigned, their quantity, for how long, in which stage or module and what specific actions they will execute (the **teaming** part of the exercise).

Tactics should allow for a quick change in expected situations (when it is known that some active action will be carried out that will generate noise) or unexpected situations such as the behavior of well-established/configured protection elements.

Finally, the result of this stage is a documented set of Tactics to be used in subsequent modules and in common actions such as Initial Engagement, Installation (including DevOps and OpSec practices that must be employed), Lateral Movement, Persistence and Permanence, Exfiltration.
